{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17180\viewh17460\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 The Sand Timer\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
\
I was once at the bottom of a well and it was on day 464 that I decided to climb out.\
\
	 I mean, it wasn\'92t that I didn\'92t want to get out before this day, but it was then that I decided to actually do it rather than just long to do it. Something somehow solidified in reality as if it were illuminated strongly by a ray from the sun, the way out.\
\
	The bottom of the well had long since dried up and the earthy walls showed no sign of dampness. Their smell held the past occupation with a grape skin mustiness that only grew stronger once the partially dry surface layer was scraped away. Under the surface the ruddy brown mud, had the consistency of crank clay, with small stones and shards of sharp sand distributed homogeneously throughout it and occasionally on digging, one would find pea sized pieces of soft stone that would crumble under the pressure of a thumb and finger. One rarely found within the substrate small pieces of a much harder metamorphic glassy rock. I was lucky to find one of these pieces about the size of an almond just below the surface, as if left intentionally for me just below the surface and with it I begin digging my way out of the hole.\
	\
	The first few weeks down there seem now to have dissolved into the distant past and emulsified with memories, only my scratches on the walls tie those days past with the present. I remember being preoccupied with escape, and of spending countless hours scratching the walls with my hands and crying up to the much indifferent stars. I remember the beautiful terracotta of the brown mud as it mixed with my blood, I remember the pain that came with that beauty, I remember the exposed bone that started to protrude from my fingertips, I remember ignoring the pain and pushing on in a waterfall of torment. Most clearly of all however is that I remember stopping. I remember the defeat of it all. How small I felt. The nothingness. \
\
	I sat motionless for several days. There were no screams, I didn\'92t cry, I didn\'92t ask anything. The emotions were there, flying as a caged bird, but their connection to me, there vessel to the outside world had been severed, mentally torn apart. As I sat, I took in my situation. Usually one can surmise and rationalise the position that they find themselves in; I am on a bus, I am having a bath, I am in a cafe eating a cake. It took three days for me to fully comprehend where I was and then another three to be able to start feeling again. It came slowly, at first my skin started to feel cold, the wind on my face, barely noticeable, let me know that I was at least still alive. I lost count of the days that were required to fully regain full consciousness, the days rationalising my existence to myself, creating lies to ensure the actuality of the situation didn\'92t break me. I was grey and empty, hope had departed, and it was then that I began questioning who I was. What horrendous person had put me in this well? Why me? What malign force had decided that I deserved this punishment. I became enraged and beat my bleeding hands against the walls of the well. Soft impressions were left in the mud amongst the previous scratches. I continued to pound the same spot deeper and deeper into the wall until I struck the wall so hard that the blunt force split my skin. I brought my hand up to my mouth to suck the wound clean and there was glassy grit stuck into my flesh. \
\
	I stared In awe at the concave patch of wall where I had released my anger and protruding out of it not more than a three millimetres was a sharp glassy point of the almond shaped stone I mentioned earlier, the point of which I realised then was the perpetrator of my punctured hand. I started to pick at it with my two working fingers, the two that weren\'92t currently worn away. After some considerable time and effort the small black stone popped out of it\'92s muddy socket and landed glittering on the floor of the well. In that stone I felt the universe condense, collapsing into it. All my future hopes, all the dreams of things yet to come, all the people and places that I was yet to see, and all the untold stories, they all crystallised inside that little seedlike rock.\
\
	 I lived on the happiness that the find gave me for long enough for my hands to heal and during that time I plotted my escape. I began to use the sharp stone to dig horizontally, it was slow progress as I held the rock between index middle and thumb, and as a woodpecker uses it\'92s beak, I began to slowly peck away at the mud that surrounded me. After what I think was a week I had excavated a tunnel long enough to lie my whole body inside. It was at this distance that  the mud changed density, it\'92s smooth claylike consistency gave way to something a lot harder, almost stone. This in turn resulted in much slower progress. After another week at this reduced rate of cutting, I had only progressed another arms length. Luckily this harder going proved to be only a minor set back as after another week of digging I reached softer ground once again. In this more pliable material is was able to cut in a day what preciously took a week and as time progressed, even though my stone was almost worn out I covered more and more ground. The material was fantastically sandy and by the second week after reaching the sand the tunnel was so long that I had taken to sleeping in it as to not have to backtrack on my hands and knees at the end of each day. Progress went incredibly smoothly and the soil which I cut and moved with my hands became drier and drier, a sign that I could only  attribute to being closer to the surface. The exhaustion and relief I felt on that night knowing that I would soon be free opened the doors to one of the most peaceful nights I have ever experienced.\
\
	I was asleep when it happened though, at first a deep rumbling woke me from my deep slumber. Then the sound of distant rain and finally dust. I didn\'92t comprehend the magnitude of the problem that had just occurred as I struggled to breath in the cloying air. I crawled forwards towards where I had heard the first deep rumbling. The loose ground which i had been shovelling most haphazardly had collapsed in front of me. I didn\'92t know if I was lucky or unlucky to survive the rockfall as the pain was unbearable. The mental pain that I suffered digging this tomb was nothing compared with the mental pain of loss, of the destruction of the future and the inevitable futility of any attempted escape. \
\
	So much progress eradicated in a matter of seconds. The air was viscous with the glassy shards from the collapsed tunnel I felt them rip through my airways with every breath that I took. I wore my clothes as face mask but in reality it couldn\'92t have done much good. I have to explain to you now that in my haste to make forward progress the tunnel wasn\'92t wide enough to turn around it and was barely tall enough to crawl within. The dust was choking me out of the tunnel I was being chased backwards as fast as I could crawl. I had been going for a few minutes when my feet struck something, solid but forgiving. It was only when I noticed the metallic taste of freshly fallen earth that I realised the certainty of my fate. I was blocked in between two collapsed sections of tunnel. I had no way of knowing how much of what had once been my means of exit existed any longer, my escape route had become my tomb. Buried alive and alone, such a tragic end. \
\
	The panic continued to fill my brain, swelling and ebbing as the minutes progressed. The harrowing number of possible future realities seemed to compress me as time continued to strike decisions from the list of possibilities. The exact moment that the following happened, I find very difficult to pinpoint exactly, however I can remember both before and after that moment distinctly. As the innumerable grains of sand fall from the reservoir at the top of an hourglass into the pool at the bottom I felt squeezed through the focus, compressed and distorted until I was unrecognisable to myself. All the familiar textures of the tunnel blending into a fantasy that I was stuck within.  A piercing pressure ruptured my spirit and drew out my breath. I was left, once again an empty shell, tired and broken washed up on the shores of isolation.\
\
	this intense compaction continued until I could no longer think, no longer scream and my breaths were snatched. My mind was being constricted by an otherworldly force, a force of such incomprehensible magnitude that I was only as a mote of dust is to the star that consumes it. My mouth was dry, my lungs were drained and scarred from the foul air. Without warning the tunnel which by this time I was convinced would be where I drew my last breath filled with colourful light; neon yellows, greens, reds, pinks, until finally a soft sky electric blue illuminated the passage before me. This technicolour meltdown gradually faded and as it passed, I noticed that I could breathe once again and that reality had settled back to normality. \
\
	With this newly quickened air and knowing how close my existence had come to being extinguished I found a new purpose and began feverishly  problem solving in order to extricate myself from the perilous position that I found myself in. The analysis of the situation found me approximately 50 meters from a tunnel fall in front of me and pressed up against another under my feet. Given that I had been digging for the best part of a month, I  estimated that I was no more than 50 metres from the tunnels entrance and probably, due to the nature of the sandy soil more likely 35 meters. Hope had somehow wandered back onto the track of my life and I found myself wondering how long was until we met face to face. With this excitement I started to shift the sandy earth from my feet along my side to beyond my head. It was as I shuffled the dirt as a worm does inside it\'92s self that my hands happened upon something unlike the stone peas that I had become accustomed to. The object was almost warm to the touch and certainly not cold as the peas that were embedded in the soil. It was much larger and longer than the other stones I had found and almost shovel shaped with a thinner middle section and a large bulbous end. \
\
	I started to use this stone to move the earth around me , and with the help from this new tool a much faster pace was achieved. This wasn\'92t the only strangely shaped stone that I uncovered while backtracking through the collapsed section of the tunnel. I found 8 long stones, and many curved and a plethora of weirdly shaped ones. Most extraordinary of these finds was a bowl shaped  stone that seemed to be the work of man rather than nature. It was with this wood like bowl that i was able to scoop vast quantities of material out of my path incredibly quickly. I used it to dig away the sides of the tunnel in order to create enough room to turn around in so I could face the direction of travel. I was moving at a great pace towards the well now that I had an array of digging equipment with which to excavate and it felt like no time at all until I was once again back at the hard packed earth that first hampered my tunnelling effort. Luckily at this hard seam of rocky earth is where the tunnel\'92s collapse had ended. The first thing I smelt was the outside air. It rushed lovingly into the tunnel behind me blowing past my face and washing my mind of the past weeks of anguish. I crawled forwards, almost crying from exhaustion the light of the outside seemed to creep towards me as I towards it. At first the brightness was bearable but as I progressed it stunned me, I felt almost repulsed as it etched a trail through my eyes and into the depths of my skull, violating me, exposing within me all the things I had forgotten to hate. Only the desire to be free of my earthly confines which had cocooned me forced me from the hole. Bringing all of the digging implements with me I crawled forwards, until finally I was free and stood up, free from the tunnel. Once my eyes became adjusted to the light I took a deep breath and craned my head backwards. The same blue sky that had always been there beamed it\'92s liquid smile back at me. Never before had I been so happy to see it\'92s emptiness. Flowing confidence filled me as I realised the relief of being back in the open space of the well, it felt like the right place. It was then as I looked down at my makeshift shovels, the implements of my escape and the things to which I owed my meagre existence to that I realised what they were. And although caked in mud and dust, their familiar whiteness glistened under the bright blue light above; they were old, but not infirm and they were most unmistakably bones.\
\
	Bones of a fallen comrade? Bones of someone else like me who had been placed against their will into this well? A man, a woman? An artist or slave? My mind seemed to liquify into an icy stream and flow most viscously down my spine. Solidarity with this person whoever they were wrenched tears from my eyes and wrapped my heart in tight muslin. Why were they left unspared by the earth, why wasn\'92t I consumed? Why was it that I was allowed to live. I sat wit the bones in my lap and held the bowl shaped one at the top of the pile, the teeth jutting from the jaw brought reality into sharp focus. The hopes and dreams that were once within that hemisphere were now pulverised and cast adrift in time. The genetic link into the past stretching for millions of years uninterrupted now ended in a cold trail at the bottom of the well. I can\'92t remember how long I stayed in this position hunched over the remains of another soul, drained of energy and filled with a vicious anger that tore chunks of flesh from my psyche. I treasured the bones and ran their forms through my fingers many times imagining the flesh that once sat around them. I whispered into the empty skull trying to fill the space once again with thoughts and memories. I listened but heard no reply. Darkness fell on me, a deathly blanket smothering me for what felt like an eternity but on day 464 I decided to climb out of the well.\
	I started by first gathering up the bones and embedding them into the muddy clay at the bottom of the well. I climbed up them like a rudimentary staircase and when I had run out of ribs and only had the two largest bones in my hands I was about three body lengths off the ground. I then used the two femurs as an alpinist would a set of ice axes and jammed them into the soil above my head. Pulling up on then I levered my body and one by one dug them in again. My own legs scrabbled uselessly agains the wall of the well during this process and at many times I thought of all the manifestations of catastrophe that could strike. After an hour, fatigue was consuming me but I was driven upwards by the smell of fresher air and the sweetness of the sunshine which started washing over me at this new altitude. I could see the blue circle that filled my vision increase in size, a luscious planet floating in the blackish brown sky of the sides of the well. It swole as an autumn moon with every move I made upward until it filled the whole of my field of view. It was at this point that I knew I was close. \
	Sweat was beading on my brow and my muscles ached, their sinews working beyond normal plastic deformation and beginning to rupture under the prolonged strain. Only a few more meters to go. I dug in the stump of the femur but it hit one of the glassy rocks and I felt the end shatter and I was left hanging by one arm with the bone stump in the other. Too worn out to do anything, unable to hold on for much longer I was sure to fall to my death. As my fingers started to disengage from the remaining bone I heard faintly as if from the distant past someone speaking to me. The skull was whispering to me from the bottom of the well. \'93There is more to you.\'94 with this I reached up with my free hand stepped up on what felt like nothingness and grasped over the top lip of the well. The moment that my fingers made it over the top my body electrified and I gained an unknown energy which allowed me to pull myself over. After spending so much time with vertical surfaces it was an incredible relief to finally be interacting with something horizontal once again. My skin bristled with the radiance of the golden sun that flowed upon me as rivulets of joy ran over my body, an incendiary happiness flooded my senses. My eyes welcomed the light which came this time without interrogation, and for the first time in many years I felt free. I stood up and started to walk away from the hole that I had been trapped within for such a long time, still wondering who it was that would do such a heinous thing to me. And as my eyes finally began to adjust to the brightness I saw a large object twenty paces away washing in and out of focus between my glistening tears. As i approached it, it\'92s form became more obvious and finally as I placed my gnarled palm against it I realised that there was a soft interior curve to it\'92s muddy exterior. \
\
	I threw my head back in desperation as I realised that once again I was at the bottom of a well.}